= Rack::DirectoryTemplate

Generate directory listings in the request's prefered format. Customize response via ERB templates and/or callbacks.

=== Overview

 run Rack::DirectoryTemplate.new "/var/www/html/yoursite"

 curl -H 'Accept: application/json' 'http://yoursite/somedir'
 curl -H 'Accept: application/xml'  'http://yoursite/somedir'
 
 # Only accept requests for HTML and JSON 
 run Rack::DirectoryTemplate.new, ".", :accept => [:html, :json]

 # Get the directory from the "file" request parameter, e.g., for JavaScript file browsers.
 run Rack::DirectoryTemplate.new, ".", :param => "file"

 curl 'http://yoursite/somedir?file=path/to/dir'

 # Custom templates
 run Rack::DirectoryTemplate.new, ".", :templates => YourFactory
 run Rack::DirectoryTemplate.new, ".", :templates => "/path/to/erb/templates"  
 run Rack::DirectoryTemplate.new, ".", :templates => { :json => lambda { |listing| ... } }

 # Recursive listings 
 run Rack::DirectoryTemplate.new, ".", :recurse => true

 # Recurse with a limit
 run Rack::DirectoryTemplate.new, ".", :recurse => 10
 
=== Description

Rack::DirectoryTemplate is a Rack endpoint for directory listings that examines the request's 
Accept header and generates a reply in the prefered format. Directory names can also be given 
via a request parameter, great for JavaScript file tree plugins 
like {jQuery File Tree}[http://www.abeautifulsite.net/blog/2008/03/jquery-file-tree].

Currently supports HTML, JSON, and XML. Suitable defaults are provided for each format. Customization is 
possible via ERB templates and/or callbacks.

Requests for files will be passed off to the handler given by the +:app+ option, which
defaults to <code>Rack::File</code>.

=== Creating Templates

Templates can be created via +ERB+, a +Proc+, or a class that responds to a +html+, +xml+, 
or +json+ method. A directory listing for the request will be provided to these in the 
following format, either as an argument or as a template variable:

  { :url   => "/some/path"
    :name  => "path, 
    :user  => "sshaw", 
    :group => "sshaw",  
    :type  => "directory",
    :mtime => "Tue Jun 05 14:13:31 -0700 2012",
    :atime => "Tue Jun 05 14:13:31 -0700 2012",
    :ctime => "Tue Jun 05 14:13:31 -0700 2012",
    :mode  => 16877,
    :files => [ { 
      :url  => "/some/path/file1", 
      :name => "file", 
      # same fields as above 
     } ] }

=== Author

Skye Shaw [sshaw AT lucas.cis.temple.edu]

=== License

Released under the MIT License: www.opensource.org/licenses/MIT
